feat(otel): add support for otel metrics (#5021)
DataDog/dd-trace-rb: docs/OpenTelemetry.md

# OpenTelemetry

**Supported OpenTelemetry features**:

| Type          | Documentation                                        | datadog version | Gem version support |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |
| Tracing       | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby | 1.9.0+          | >= 1.1.0            |

> | Metrics       | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby | 2.24.0+          | Metrics SDK >= 0.8, Exporter >= 0.4 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metrics       | https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby | 2.24.0+          | [Metrics SDK](https://rubygems.org/gems/opentelemetry-metrics-sdk) >= 0.8, [OTLP Metrics Exporter](https://rubygems.org/gems/opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-metrics) >= 0.4 |
```
I think we should make it clear which libraries with a panel, specially for the exporter, since there are multiple OTel gems with exporter in the name: https://rubygems.org/search?query=opentelemetry-exporter

   [Integration instrumentations](#integration-instrumentation) and OpenTelemetry [Automatic instrumentations](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/ruby/automatic/) are also supported.

## Configuring OpenTelemetry Metrics

1. Add required gems to your Gemfile:

    ```ruby
    gem 'datadog'
    gem 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk', '>= 0.8'

>     gem 'opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-metrics', '>= 0.4'

Author: We expect/hope to support the next major release but we can be a bit more cautious here. I'll restrict this to the minor.

## Configuring OpenTelemetry Metrics

1. Add required gems to your Gemfile:

    ```ruby
    gem 'datadog'
    gem 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk', '>= 0.8'
    gem 'opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-metrics', '>= 0.4'
    ```

1. Install gems with `bundle install`

1. Enable metrics export:

    ```ruby
    # Set environment variable before initalizing metrics support
    ENV['DD_METRICS_OTEL_ENABLED'] = 'true'
    require 'opentelemetry/sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry/exporter/otlp_metrics'
    require 'datadog/opentelemetry'

    ...
    ```

1. Use the OpenTelemetry Metrics API:

    ```ruby
    require 'opentelemetry/metrics'

    provider = OpenTelemetry.meter_provider
    meter = provider.meter('my-app')
    counter = meter.create_counter('requests')
    counter.add(1)
    ```

**Configuration Options:**

- `DD_METRICS_OTEL_ENABLED` - Enable metrics export (default: false)
- `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_PROTOCOL` - Protocol: `http/protobuf` (default), `grpc` and `http/json` is not supported (yet).

> - `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT` - Custom endpoint (defaults to agent hostname + protocol port)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT` - Custom endpoint (defaults to the Datadog agent endpoint)
```

> - `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_TEMPORALITY_PREFERENCE` - `delta` (default) or `cumulative`

Reviewer: @mabdinur does `cumulative` work with the Datadog agent?

Reviewer: >@mabdinur does cumulative work with the Datadog agent?

Just to confirm, does it? If it doesn't them we have to document it here.

- `OTEL_METRIC_EXPORT_INTERVAL` - Export interval in milliseconds (default: 10000)

General OTLP settings (`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_*`) serve as defaults if metrics-specific settings are not provided.

> **Note:** Minimum `opentelemetry-metrics-sdk` is v0.8.0 (contains critical bug fixes). Use the latest version for best support. Exporter minimum depends on the metrics SDK. If OpenTelemetry API breaking changes affect ddtrace, [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Minimum `opentelemetry-metrics-sdk` is v0.8.0 (contains critical bug fixes). Use the latest version for best support. OTLP Metrics Exporter minimum depends on the metrics SDK. If an OpenTelemetry API breaking changes affect the `datadog` gem, [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-rb/issues).
```

   [Integration instrumentations](#integration-instrumentation) and OpenTelemetry [Automatic instrumentations](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/ruby/automatic/) are also supported.

## Configuring OpenTelemetry Metrics

1. Add required gems to your Gemfile:

    ```ruby
    gem 'datadog'
    gem 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk', '~> 0.8'
    gem 'opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-metrics', '~> 0.4'
    ```

1. Install gems with `bundle install`

1. Enable metrics export:

    ```ruby
    # Set environment variable before initializing metrics support
    ENV['DD_METRICS_OTEL_ENABLED'] = 'true'
    require 'opentelemetry/sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry/exporter/otlp_metrics'
    require 'datadog/opentelemetry'

    Datadog.configure do |c|
      # Configure Datadog settings if needed

>     end

Author: I can remove this. I just wanted to show the different ways configurations can be set. It's a bit unnecessary here.

   [Integration instrumentations](#integration-instrumentation) and OpenTelemetry [Automatic instrumentations](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/ruby/automatic/) are also supported.

## Configuring OpenTelemetry Metrics

1. Add required gems to your Gemfile:

    ```ruby
    gem 'datadog'
    gem 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk', '~> 0.8'
    gem 'opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-metrics', '~> 0.4'
    ```

1. Install gems with `bundle install`

1. Enable metrics export:

    ```ruby
    # Set environment variable before initializing metrics support
    ENV['DD_METRICS_OTEL_ENABLED'] = 'true'
    require 'opentelemetry/sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry-metrics-sdk'
    require 'opentelemetry/exporter/otlp_metrics'

>     require 'datadog/opentelemetry'

Author: Actually only opentelemetry/sdk and datadog/opentelemetry are required. `opentelemetry/sdk` is required to call `OpenTelemetry::SDK.configure` and `'datadog/opentelemetry'` is required to enable ddtrace-opentelemetry support for both metrics and traces. 

We do not need to import `'opentelemetry/exporter/otlp_metrics'`  and `'opentelemetry/exporter/otlp_metrics'` here. This is handled by `'datadog/opentelemetry'`. I added these require statements to signal to users that they NEED to install the metrics-sdk and the metrics-exporter. I'll remove these imports and make the description a bit clearer.
